I want to come to an end with all these strategies by using one other strategy, the cache only strategy. I mentioned
that this is a strategy which doesn't make that much sense oftentimes but for the assets, we store in our
app shell, it does make sense in my opinion because whenever we update one of these files, we push a new
service worker to the front-end anyways, so we always have the latest version of these files in the cache.
Hence it makes sense to load all these files directly from the cache instead of trying to get them from
the network
if the cache fails. Now you could argue if the cache fails for some other reason, then these files not
being present,
we kind of break our app unnecessarily, though that shouldn't really happen. Anyways
feel free to keep the current implementation to protect against this edge case,
I still want to show you how you could use the cache only strategy combined with routing.
So for that, I'll simply add a new block here, else/if
where I now want to check whether we're loading one of these files here. To implement that, I'll first
of all create a new variable which I'll call static assets and this will be an array of strings and
I will use the array of strings I have up here.
So I will basically take all these files, I'll leave these links in there at the bottom, though to be honest
we can grab them all,
so let's take them all and let's add them into these array here.
Well actually since I'm setting up this array anyways, why don't we go to the top of that file
and add a static files array here where I simply add all these files and now we can use this here in
the add all call, static files simply to remove redundancy
and then down there, I check if the static files array simply,
well if the URL contains one of these links to be precise.
So there I use a regular expression, with new reg exp,
I can create a new regular expression on the fly
and here is the regular expression I want to create.
This is simply a regular expression which will check if in my static files array which I join
here in my regular expression,
if that contains any
if the URL, the request URL contains any of the elements in that array and for that, I again on the
fly create this regular expression which will simply contain all these elements of my array and give
me a way to check if any of these is present in my final request
URL.
So that's what this regular expression does here,
so a lot of backslashes and Bs, in the end what this reads or what this means is,
I join all my static files with the word boundary operators so to say, so this basically means
we have separate words and I check if this regular expression of separate words, if the URL matches this.
So I chain test here on the created regular expression and test if the event request, the URL fits
any of the words I have in there,
so I might look a bit cryptic but that's what I do.
Of course you could write a helper function where you simply loop through the array and check every
entry against the URL, this is the shortest possible way I could come up with.
So I'm checking if my request URL is part of that array,
so basically if I'm requesting any of these files here
and if this is the case, well then I want to implement my cache only strategy.
We can just copy it from there,
respond with the cache, nothing else. So let's go up here and comment this in and with that, we get the
cache only strategy implemented for our statically cached files.
Let's go back to the application and reload it to install the updated service worker,
oh for that maybe network access would be good,
so let's enable that and reload.
Now we install the service worker
and with that, you know the game, simply reopen a new tab to activate it.
Now everything is working, which is a good sign. In the network,
we're loading everything from the service worker,
if I go offline, we're also loading it from there.
So now the cache first or the cache only, excuse me, strategy is working,
it works as before but the difference is we don't have a fallback,
we don't try to go to the network if we don't find it in the cache.
Now I said you can stick to the other alternative,
this however would be a use case where a cache only also is a viable strategy because you're talking
about files which don't change, where you update the service worker anyways if they change because you
cache them right during the installation step. With that,
this is all about strategies and routing or requests URL parsing
I want to show you for now.
You'll learn a lot of tools for handling caching,
working with it and experience really comes with practicing that.
So that's what we're going to do next,
definitely do it on your own anyways,
build your own projects where you practice it, this is
the only way you can really master this.